Ace (1 or 4)

The Ace trait is only active when players have one or four Ace units on the board. An Ace champion will execute an enemy when it drops below a health threshold.

    One: Execute enemies under 15 percent health
    Four: Execute enemies under 30 percent health

Set Eight champions with the Ace trait are Draven, Miss Fortune, Samira, and Mordekaiser.
A.D.M.I.N. (2/4/6)

The A.D.M.I.N. trait allows players to choose a cause and effect upon activating the trait, personalizing the trait. An additional effect and bonus outputs take place at higher breakpoints.

    Two: Choose the cause and effect for the A.D.M.I.N. trait
    Four: Choose an additional effect to go with the original cause and effect
    Six: Outputs from effects are increased by 100 percent

The A.D.M.I.N. Set Eight champions are Blitzcrank, Camille, LeBlanc, and Soraka.
Aegis (2/3/4/5)

Aegis units provide magic resistance to the team while gaining more for themselves. Magic resistance increases for both the team and Aegis units at each breakpoint.

    Two: 20 magic resistance for the team and 50 for Aegis units
    Three: 40 magic resistance for the team and 80 for Aegis units
    Four: 60 magic resistance for the team and 120 for Aegis units
    Five: 90 magic resistance for the team and 170 for Aegis units

Champions with the Aegis trait are Vi, Alistar, Ekko, and Leona.
Anima Squad (3/5/7)

Anima Squad units build up Fame upon taking out an enemy unit. Champions with the Anima Squad trait gain attack damage, ability power, and plus-six health according to their shared Fame. Power increases at each breakpoint. Anima Squad champions can’t gain Fame during PvE rounds and Target Dummies don’t grant Fame either.

    Three: 10 percent attack damage and ability power
    Five: 30 percent attack damage and ability power
    Seven: 55 percent attack damage and ability power

The Anima Squad champions are Nasus, Sylas, Jinx, Vayne, Riven, and Miss Fortune.
Arsenal (Unique to Aphelios)

The Arsenal trait allows players to pick the weapons for Aphelios upon placing him on the board. Weapons change the spell effects for Aphelios.
Brawler (2/4/6/8)

Brawler units gain additional health that increases at each breakpoint.

    Two: 20 percent maximum health
    Four: 40 percent maximum health
    Six: 65 percent maximum health
    Eight: 99 percent maximum health

Brawler TFT Set Eight champions are Blitzcrank, Renekton, Lee Sin, Vi, Jax, Riven, and Sejuani.
Civilian (1/2/3)

Civilian units in Set Eight inspire allies to fight harder to protect them by gaining mana every two seconds the longer they remain alive. Mana increases at each breakpoint.

    One: Two mana
    Two: Four mana
    Three: 10 mana

Civilian champions in TFT Set Eight are Galio, Sivir, and Janna.
Corrupted (Unique to Fiddlesticks)

At the start of combat, Fiddlesticks is dormant. Upon allies dying, Fiddlesticks uses the Corrupted trait to absorb their soul, granting him 15 ability power. Upon falling below 40 percent health, or when all allies have perished, Fiddlesticks will exit their dormant state and enter combat.
Defender (2/4/6)

Shortly after the start of combat, Defender units taunt nearby enemies. All allies gain bonus armor and Defender units gain more. Armor increases at each breakpoint.

    Two: 30 armor for the team and 60 for Defender units
    Four: 80 armor for the team and 120 for Defender units
    Six: 200 armor for the team and 200 for Defender units

Chamions with the Defender trait are Poppy, Wukong, Rell, Riven, and Sett
Gadgeteen (3/5)

During each round of combat, Gadgeteen champions generate a random modified weapon that can be equipped on any unit. The weapons will fall apart after one round of use. Gadgeteen champions won’t make new weapons to replace the ones left on the bench. The number of weapons created increases at breakpoints.

A “breadcrumb” will show up if too many Gadgeteen items are on a player’s bench, preventing a new item from getting created. Items created by an active Gadgeteen trait go away when the trait is deactivated. They also decay if left on the bench and during PvE rounds.

    Three: Create one weapon every round
    Five: Create two weapons every round

Gadgeteen champions in TFT Set Eight are Lulu, Poppy, Annie, Zoe, and Nunu.
Duelists (2/4/6/8)

All Duelist units gain attack speed from basic attacks, up to 12 stacks. Attack speed per stack increases with each breakpoint.

    Two: Five percent attack speed per stack
    Four: Nine percent attack speed per stack
    Six: 15 percent attack speed per stack
    Eight: 24 percent attack speed per stack

Champions with the Duelist trait are Gangplank, Kayle, Fiora, Yasuo, Nilah, Vayne, and Zed.
Forecaster (Unique to Janna)

Able to read the weather, Janna uses the Forecaster trait to buff all adjacent allies depending on the current weather conditions, which changes with each game.

    Rainy: Starting mana 20/40/100
    Windy: AD and AP per five seconds 12/25/150

Hacker (2/3/4)

At the start of combat, a Hacker unit summons an H4ckerr!m that takes the champion to the enemy backline. The rider can’t be targeted for the first “X” seconds of combat. At the time of writing, “X” has yet to be determined. All Hacker units gain Omnivamp. There are no breakpoints for the Hacker trait other than the activation at two.

    Two: 15 percent Omnivamp
    Three: 40 percent Omnivamp
    Four: 70 percent Omnivamp

Hacker champions are LeBlanc, Zoe, and Zed.
Heart (2/4/6)

Upon casting a spell, Heart units grant all allies AP for the rest of combat. Ability power given to allies increases at each breakpoint.

    Two: Four AP
    Four: Seven AP
    Six: 10 AP

Champions with the Heart trait in Set Eight are Lulu, Lee Sin, Yuumi, Sona, Soraka, and Syndra.
LaserCorps (3/6/9)

Each LaserCorps champion in TFT Set Eight is assigned a combat drone. Upon attacking or getting hit by an attack, the drone has a 50 percent chance to deal magic damage to the LaserCorps unit’s target. There is a 0.5-second cooldown. Upon a LaserCorps unit perishing, the drone is re-assigned immediately to the nearest living LaserCorps champion. Damage from a drone increases at each breakpoint.

    Three: Drone lasers deal 60 magic damage
    Six: Drone lasers deal 150 magic damage
    NIne: Drone padres deal 200 magic damage and each LaserCorps unit gets another drone

LaserCorps champions are Ashe, Renekton, Yasuo, Senna, Sejuani, Zed, and Mordekaiser.
Mascot (2/4/6/8)

Upon perishing on the battlefield, Mascot champions retreat to the sideline to cheer on their team. Allies regenerate a percentage of maximum health every two seconds, which is increased by one percent for each cheering Mascot unit. Mascot units regenerate double. Regeneration increases at each breakpoint.

    Two: Regenerate 1.5 percent of health
    Four: Regenerate 2.75 percent of health
    Six: Regenerate 5.5 percent of health
    Eight: Regenerate 10 percent of health

Mascot units in TFT Set Eight are Galio, Nasus, Malphite, Yummi, Alistar, and Nunu.
Mecha: PRIME (3/5)

At the start of combat, players designate a PRIME, which combines with the two closes Mecha units, taking a portion of their base health and attack damage. Health and attack damage increases at each breakpoint. Health transfer is 100 percent.

    Three: The PRIME gains 60 ability power and 45 percent attack damage
    Five: All Mechs gain 35 ability power and 50 percent attack damage while the PRIME gains double this amount.

Champions that have the Mecha: PRIME trait are Wukong, Draven, Jax, Sett, and Leona.
Ox Force (2/4/6/8)

All Ox Force champions gain attack speed that increases with their missing health. Attack speed percentage ranges increase at each breakpoint. The first time an Ox Force unit would die during combat, they become Invulnerable for one second.

    Two: 15 to 30 percent attack speed
    Four: 35 to 80 percent attack speed
    Six: 70 to 150 percent attack speed
    Eight: 125 to 300 percent attack speed

Ox Force Set Eight champions are Talon, Annie, Fiora, Alistar, Virgo, and Aphelios.
Prankster (2/3)

Prankster units create a Target Dummy to escape attacks. Target Dummies have a health of 350.

    Two: When a Prankster unit falls below 50 percent health, it spawns a target dummy, dashes to a safe location, and restores 350 health.
    Three: The enemy who kills a target dummy is stunned for 1.5 seconds.

Champions with the Prankster trait are Jinx, Zoe, and Ekko.
Recon (2/3/4)

Recon units gain attack range. Prior to casting, if there is an enemy in a nearby Hex, the Recon unit will dash to safety while gaining a bonus critical strike chance. The critical strike chance increases at each breakpoint.

    Two: 10 percent critical strike chance
    Three: 75 percent critical strike chance
    Four: 100 percent critical strike chance and all spells from Recon units can Crit.

Champions with the Recon trait are Ashe, Ezreal, Kai’Sa, and Vayne.
Renegade (3/6)

Renegade champions deal a percentage of damage that increases at breakpoints. The last Renegade unit alive during combat deals more.

    Three: 35 percent bonus damage
    Six: 60 percent bonus damage

Renegade Set Eight TFT champions are Sylas, Talon, Camille, Viego, and Leona.
Spellslinger (2/4/6/8)

Spellslinger units replace their next attack with a meteor orb of magic that they fling at a random target every six seconds. The meteor deals 50 percent of its ability power as magic damage. Spellslinger units gain increased AP with each breakpoint.

    Two: 25 AP
    Four: 60 AP
    Six: 95 AP
    Eight: 140 AP and 150 percent meteor damage

Champions with the Spellslinger trait are Lux, Annie, LeBlanc, Sona, and Taliyah.
Star Guardian (3/5/7/9)

Star Guardian units generate mana for the team at each breakpoint.

    Three: 40 percent additional mana
    Five: 70 percent additional mana
    Seven: 120 percent additional mana
    Nine: 200 percent additional mana

Champions that have the Star Guardian trait are Lux, Rell, Yummi, Kai’Sa, Nilah, Ekko, Taliyah, and Syndra.
Supers (3)

There are no breakpoints for the Supers trait. Units that have the Supers trait grant allies 18 percent bonus damage at the start of combat. For every three-star unit on the team, the bonus damage percentage is increased by three percent.

Champions with the Supers trait are Gangplank, Lee Sin, and Malphite.
Sureshot (2/4)

Sureshot champions gain attack damage for the remainder of combat, every five seconds, increasing with each breakpoint.

    Two: Eight percent AD
    Four: 20 percent AD

Champions with the Sureshot trait are Sivir, Senna, Samira, and Aphelios.
Threat

A TFT Set Eight champion with the Threat trait is unique. The Threat trait isn’t technically a trait as other Threat units don’t synergize or increase bonuses. Players can field any number of Threat units as they will act individually, having more power than other Set Eight champions.

Champions that have the Threat trait are Cho’Gath, Rammus, Vel’Koz, Aurelion Sol, Bel’Veth, Zac, Fiddlesticks, and Urgot.
Underground (3/5)

Underground champions in TFT Set Eight earn progress towards completing a heist with each combat win or loss. Players must crack 10 locks to complete a heist. Upon completion, players may choose to take the rewards and start over or continue to get better rewards. Progress toward completing the heist with a win or loss increases at breakpoints.